We're continuing our series today on Manifest, Manifest 2006.
And today our theme is Manifest Belovedness.
We're celebrating the baptism of the Lord.
And I hope that you have followed along in the first week of the series grow guide and devotional and that you are manifesting and growing together in your faith as we see how God is growing us, moving us, calling us in 2026.
Amen.
Go with me now to Isaiah, the 42nd chapter, verses 1 through 9.
Isaiah chapter 42, 1 through 9.
I'm reading from the new Revised Standard Version updated edition.
The NRSB says, here is my servant, but most translations say, behold my servant whom I uphold my chosen and whom my soul delights.
And that word in the translation is actually in whom my soul loves.
I have put my spirit upon him.
He will bring forth justice to the nations.
He will not cry out or lift up his voice or make it heard in the street.
A bruised reed he will not break.
And a dimly burning wick he will not quench.
He will faithfully bring forth justice.
He will not grow faint or be crushed until he has established justice in the earth.
and the coastlands wait for his teaching.
Thus says God, the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and what comes from it, who gives breath to the people upon it and spirit to those who walk in it.
I am the Lord.
I have called you in righteousness.
I have taken you by the hand and kept you.
I have given you as a covenant to the people, a light to the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness.
I am the Lord.
That is my name.
My glory.
I give to no other nor praise to my idols.
See the former things have come to pass.
And new things I now declare.
Before they spring forth, I tell you of them.
Stand now as we read the Gospel lesson this morning from the Gospel of Matthew chapter, the Gospel of Mark chapter one, verses one through 11.
The Gospel of Mark chapter one, verses one through 11.
The beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ.
As it is written in the prophet Isaiah, see, I am sending a messenger ahead of you who will prepare your way.
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his path straight.
So John the baptizer appeared in the wilderness, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
And the whole Judean region and all the people of Jerusalem were going out to him and were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Now John was clothed with camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist.
and he ate locust and wild honey.
He proclaimed, the one who is more powerful than I is coming after me.
I am not worthy to stoop down and untie the strap of his sandals.
I have baptized you with water, but he, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.
In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And just as he was coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens torn apart and the spirit descending like a dove upon him.
And a voice came from the heavens.
You are my son, the beloved with you.
I am well pleased.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Let us pray.
Lord, we've come expecting a word from you.
So speak to our hearts, speak to our minds, speak to our souls.
Oh God, we need a word of belovedness today, Lord.
So have your way.
and hide this year's servant behind that old rugged cross so that everything that is said and everything that is heard comes straight from you, O God.
This is your servant's prayer.
In the name of Jesus the Christ, we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Imagine this.
Some random dude walking around the land, your neighborhood, in and out of the woods, walking around with locus and honey for his meal.
His hair in quite combed, washed, cleaned,
He's wearing a robe with a belt tied around it, not the kind of leather belts that we wear today, but the kind of leather belt that's just from the hide of the cow.
And he comes to town every now and then, and we say, yeah, that's, you remember that, Zachariah, who used to be able to talk, he can't talk.
Now that's his kid.
He's a little bit on the strange side.
He's a little bit different.
He keeps to himself and when he doesn't keep to himself, he goes around shouting, prepare the way, prepare the way, prepare the way.
Dr. Bob, when he comes down the street, people cross it because he smells a little funny.
But those that have begun to hear the word of Jesus, they find him out in those woods and they find him at a pond and they say, I understand that if I want to be like Jesus, I need to be baptized.
Maybe that they had their own songs that were like our songs that just kind of started with a hum.
ee ee ee ee
Maybe they added some words like, none but the righteous.
None but the righteous.
And John, this weirdo guy who comes in and out of the woods with locusts and honey all over his hands and a little bit disheveled and screaming at people, prepared away, prepared away.
When they come to get baptized, he would say to them, I baptize you with water, but there is one who is coming that will baptize you with Holy Spirit fire.
Imagine how odd that would have been because there was no such thing as a Bible then.
The Bible comes much later and the Gospel of Mark is the earliest Gospel but it comes to us after the letters of Paul and people are writing down very succinctly and mark the evangelist about what they remember about Jesus.
Mark doesn't start with a genealogy like Matthew.
He's not giving you the family rundown.
He's not giving you any of the background information.
And he doesn't start like Luke, telling you why this story is important, is important.
All he says is, this is the beginning of the good news of Jesus Christ.
And then he says there was a man named John.
Because the prophet Isaiah told us that God would send a Messiah, that God would send a Savior, that God would send somebody to save us from ourselves.
And John is telling them from the scroll of Isaiah, he's telling them, prepare the way because the one is coming, I will cry out if you won't cry out because I don't want no rocks crying out for me.
Prepare the way of the Lord.
Make his path straight.
Make way for God.
God is showing up.
Prepare the way of the Lord.
We're going to prepare the way of the Lord, John says.
John says that we have to do some things to get ready for Jesus to come.
We have to do some things to get ready to receive this Jesus.
that Jesus is going to show up.
We don't get to know the day or the hour, but Jesus is going to show up and Isaiah has prepared us to be living a life of expectation.
And then John says, as we're living this life of expectation, we will do some things a little bit differently.
So John the baptizer is trying to get folks ready, he's saying straighten up, get it together, be righteous, be right with God, sit with Jesus, be ready to receive the Lord.
And then unexpectedly, unexpectedly, the Lord shows up.
Out of nowhere the text says that Jesus comes and he says to John, you're going to baptize me.
And in other translations, because remember, Mark, he's just going to get you to the heart of the matter.
There's not going to be a whole lot of fluff.
There's not going to be a whole lot of context or backstory.
Mark says, here's John the Baptist.
He's getting the people ready.
He is baptizing them.
And then Jesus shows up to be baptized.
Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
And in Matthew, in the Gospel of Matthew, it says that John says, why are you here?
I'm not worthy to untie your sandals.
And Jesus does not respond.
He just gets in the water to receive his baptism.
When Jesus is baptized, a voice comes from heaven.
The heavens are torn apart and the spirit descends like a dove upon him.
And a voice comes from the heavens and says, you are my son, the beloved, with whom
I am well pleased.
There's so many people who are walking around the earth right now who do not know that they are beloved.
Who do not know that they are loved and adored simply because they exist.
Who do not know that there is nothing you can do to get outside of God.
You can't make God stop loving you You can't make God hate you.
You can't make God write you off You can't make God tell you that your your grandfather was no good your father was no good and you gonna be no good God created each and every one of us in the image of God and
And God said to that creation that you are good and that you are loved.
And when we experience baptism, we experience God claiming us and God proclaiming and naming us as beloved.
But do we act like it?
Do we walk around as beloved children of God?
Do we walk around as if God truly loves us?
Or do we walk around like we are the last, the lost, the least and the forgotten?
For God so loved you.
that he gave his only begotten son.
His only begotten son.
If you remember the Gospel story, you remember the very next thing that happens in the Gospels, especially in Luke, is that Jesus begins his public ministry, but first he goes back home to Nazareth.
You remember Nazareth?
They said, can anything come from Nazareth?
Anything good come from Nazareth?
And Jesus comes back to Nazareth and he goes to his synagogue and he goes to the people who raised him and he opens the scroll and he hears what you heard in the 42nd chapter of Isaiah today.
He reads to them, he says to them, you are to open the eyes of the blind.
I have called you to open the eyes of the blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison those who sit in darkness.
I am the Lord, that is my name, my glory I give to no other.
So leave the former things behind.
What is behind is what is behind.
The former things have come to pass.
And a new thing I now declare.
Before they spring forth, I tell you of them, expect it.
Whether you feel beloved or not, you are.
Expect it.
Whether you feel loved or not, you are deeply loved and adored by the Most High God.
Belovedness is bestowed.
It is not earned.
Hear that today.
Belovedness is
Bestowed, it is not loved.
It is granted to you.
It is a gift to you that you cannot buy.
You cannot earn and you cannot disown because you are created by God.
You are beloved.
Our belovedness is declared before we do anything else.
Our belovedness is given to us before we wake up in the morning.
Our belovedness is given to us before we take our first breath.
Our belovedness is given to us even when the pastor baptizes us in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.
You are God's beloved, so act like it.
What do you mean, act like it, pastor?
What do you mean, act like it?
Well, there's some benefits of belovedness.
Did you know that there are benefits of belovedness?
Just like if you're in a club, there's some benefits, right?
We want all the benefits and none of the responsibility sometime, but we really like benefits, don't we?
Somebody was on the TikTok the other day calling down the benefits of a Costco membership.
She was just saying, y'all, did you know that you can get this and this and this and this?
And the more she read, the more she got excited.
Benefits bless us.
Benefits allow us to be a blessing to somebody else.
Benefits of belovedness include that we get to know who we are.
I can't tell you how many people have said to me, Pastor, you know, especially during the era of Rick Warren and the purpose-driven life, I don't know what my purpose is.
Yes, you do.
You know who you are.
You belong to God and your purpose is to be loved and love somebody else.
You come here loved so that you can love somebody else.
That is a benefit of belovedness.
You don't have to wait for somebody to love you.
You don't have to wait for somebody to tell you that they love you.
You don't have to wait for somebody to act like they love you.
You don't need to wait for a spouse or a partner or a child to know that you are loved and adored.
God does that in your creation.
Benefits of belovedness, you know who you are.
God reminds us who we are is the second benefit.
We come here knowing who we are and that God reminds us who we are is the next benefit.
God says to us over and over, you are my beloved in whom I am well pleased.
You are my beloved.
You are the one in whom my soul delights.
I love you.
Over and over again the Lord says I love you.
I love you in so many ways.
God says I love you and God says do not fear.
God says I love you and God says be at peace.
God says I love you when he says I'm here.
God says I love you when he says I will never leave you nor forsake you.
God says I love
you when you come to the baptismal font and remember your baptism and God calls you beloved again and again.
Another benefit of belovedness is that we are not divine defined by situations.
or situation ships.
We are not defined by the situations we're in.
Oftentimes, instead of calling people beloved, we call them by the situation they're in.
It's a sin and a shame.
God has given us a name, beloved.
Your parents or your guardians have given you another name.
People should call you by that name if they can't call you beloved.
But we call people outside of their names all the time.
We call them hungry.
We call them homeless.
We call them destitute.
We call them violent.
We call them Republicans.
We call them Democrats.
We call them whatever we want to call them.
We call people by their situation instead of the name that God has given them, which is blocked.
And when you call somebody by their situation, you treat them by their situation.
And when you treat somebody by their situation, you treat them outside of the will of God for their life.
You are not defined.
We are not defined by our situation.
And we are not defined by what this generation calls situationships.
Some other generations have called it relationships.
We call them situationships, because we're not really sure if we want to commit to a relationship, but we'll say we're in a situationship.
Cornelia had me laugh in a couple weeks ago when I told you that Mary was hanging out with a dude named Joseph.
That was a situation.
Sometimes we call them DTRs that they're not defined relationships.
But so many times we try to define people and we try to define ourselves by the situations ships we're in.
You're not good enough if you're 30 and you're not married and you haven't had that first kid yet.
You're failing at life if you haven't gotten to a certain level in your career by age 40.
If you don't have a certain car or zip code or bank account status or American Express Platinum card by the time you're 35, what even are you doing?
God cares not about the situations we're in and the situationships in ways of defining us.
God calls us by beloved and sees us as beloved no matter what situation or situationship we're in.
We want to put people in boxes.
Have them define their status.
Friend, the status is belovedness.
Benefits of belovedness.
I want to tell you how this works out.
Several years ago, before I came here to be your pastor, I was working on the conference staff and I was asked to go to a church in North Carolina.
And I was at a staff retreat before I was leaving for the church in North Carolina.
And I asked my colleagues, how many of you have been to this church?
Tell me about this church.
And the youth director at the time for the annual conference yells out, have they told you about the squirrel?
I'm sorry, what?
What squirrel?
I thought maybe he was talking about a mascot or, you know, he said, have they told you about the squirrel?
I said, come again?
You see, I already had some angst about this preaching commitment because I was going to a church in a part of North Carolina for Martin Luther King Day observance in a place that I knew was not quite friendly to African Americans.
I was leaving early so that I could get there in the daytime because if you have ever been an African American female driving at night, you know that people with Confederate flags hanging off the back of their trucks like to try to pull you off the road and drive you off the road.
So you got to get ahead of them.
Daily reality.
And you got to get to wherever you go in before you have to drive through any of what we call these sundown towns.
Keep the speed limit in check so you don't get pulled over.
Don't look suspicious.
Don't stop unless you see other people who look like you.
That's just if you want to get home safely, even now.
And so I knew I was going to a church to talk about Dr. Martin Luther King and justice to a congregation who probably didn't really want to hear it.
And so when they brought up this squirrel, it was kind of the straw that broke the camel's back, Dr. Bob.
And I said, squirrel, you mean like a costume or something?
They're like, no.
Then my phone rang.
I said, excuse me, y'all, this is the associate pastor from that church.
I'm gonna step out for just a minute.
And my friend Justin was on the other line and he said, hey, Jasmine, I'm just so excited you're coming.
We wanna know what time you think you're gonna get here.
We're gonna take you to dinner, da, da, da, da.
Get you settled in the hotel.
And I need to talk to you about the squirrel.
Whoa!
Another mention of the squirrel.
What is this squirrel?
And my friend said,
Have you ever seen or heard of the movie Deliverance?
I said, Justin, do I need to stay home?
He said, no, no, no, I just want you to be warned.
It's OK. We're going to make sure you're safe.
But have you heard of Deliverance?
I said, yeah.
He said, you know the guy who's the rapist in Deliverance?
He has a new show on DIY network or something like that and his wife died recently.
I said, get to the point.
Where are you going?
He said, well, his wife died recently and he didn't really want to have anything to do with church, but his wife was really active in our church.
And when she died, the people just went to him.
They just went and they brought food and they did his laundry and they cleaned up the house and they just kept coming and kept coming and kept coming.
And so he called the pastor one day and he said, what's wrong with these people?
They just keep showing up.
And the pastor said, well, that's because they love you.
And he said, how can they love me?
They don't even know me.
And the pastor, he chuckled a little bit and he said, well, maybe you should come to church and we can talk about it.
So he did.
His name is Cowboy.
Some of you might have heard of him and Cowboy came to church and Cowboy kept coming to church.
But before Cowboy would come to church, he asked the preacher, can I bring my squirrel?
He was expecting the preacher to say no, and that would give him an excuse to not go to church.
And the preacher said, tell me about this squirrel.
Is it live?
Is it real?
Is it stuffed?
Is it a picture?
Tell me about your squirrel.
And Cowboy began to tell the preacher about his pet squirrel named Angel, who was on a leash that he took everywhere he went.
And if Angel was not welcome, he was not welcome.
Well, long story short, Cowboy and Angel started coming to church.
And Dr. Bob, they sat on the front view.
And because they came to church, the kids started coming to church because they were just kind of weirded out that their dad who was so anti-religious was coming to church.
And months and months and a year passed and Cowboy started bringing his new girlfriend to church, Dr. Bobbin and her kids started coming to church and then they all got baptized together.
An angel of squirrel got baptized in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost.
And even the people who thought a squirrel shouldn't be in the sanctuary, they were weeping in the presence of God at the belovedness of it all.
So when I arrived, guess who was the first person to pull up next to me?
cowboy.
And I scurried inside because, you know, if a jasmine doesn't do wildlife.
And we got all miked up and all ready for the worship, and they reminded me that we were going to celebrate communion.
And that I would be serving on the side where cowboy and angel were going to come up.
And yes, I am to serve communion.
to the squirrel named Angel.
Prepare the way of the Lord.
Make room for the squirrel named Angel.
Make room for the cowboy who everybody's still afraid of.
Make room for the people who don't look like you, who don't walk like you, who don't talk like you, who don't live like you, who don't smell like you, who may not believe like you believe.
Make room because the Lord has called us all beloved.
Take me to the water Take me to the water Take me to the water To be baptized None but the righteous
None but the righteous, none but the righteous shall see God.
I love Jesus.